---
title: 'Framing'
tags: [google course, machine learning glossary]
layout: post
mathjax: true
categories: [ML Crash Course]
permalink: /blog/:title/
---
{% assign counter = 1 %}
{% assign counter2 = 1 %}
{% assign link = "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/sourestdeeds/sourestdeeds.github.io/main/_posts/" %}
{% assign date = page.date | date: "%Y-%m-%d" %}
{% assign filename = page.title | remove: " -" | replace: " ", "-" | downcase %}

What is **supervised** machine learning? Concisely put, it is the following:

- ML systems learn how to combine input to produce useful predictions on never-before-seen data.
Let's explore fundamental machine learning terminology.

### Labels

A **label** is the thing we're predicting—the $y$ variable in simple linear regression. The label could be the future price of wheat, the kind of animal shown in a picture, the meaning of an audio clip, or just about anything.

### Features

A **feature** is an input variable—the $x$ variable in simple linear regression. A simple machine learning project might use a single feature, while a more sophisticated machine learning project could use millions of features, specified as:

$$
x_1, x_2, \ldots, x_N
$$

In the spam detector example, the features could include the following:

- words in the email text
- sender's address
- time of day the email was sent
- email contains the phrase "one weird trick."

### Examples

An example is a particular instance of data, $x$. We break examples into two categories:

- labeled examples
- unlabeled examples

A **labeled example** includes both feature(s) and the label. That is:

```python
labeled examples: {features, label}: (x, y)
```

Use labeled examples to **train** the model. In our spam detector example, the labeled examples would be individual emails that users have explicitly marked as "spam" or "not spam."

For example, the following table shows 5 labeled examples from a [data set](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/california-housing-data-description) containing information about housing prices in California:



| housingMedianAge (feature) | totalRooms (feature) | totalBedrooms (feature) | medianHouseValue (label) |
|----------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------|--------------------------|
| 15                         | 5612                 | 1283                    | 66900                    |
| 19                         | 7650                 | 1901                    | 80100                    |
| 17                         | 720                  | 174                     | 85700                    |
| 14                         | 1501                 | 337                     | 73400                    |
| 20                         | 1454                 | 326                     | 65500                    |

An **unlabeled** example contains features but not the label. That is:


```python
unlabeled examples: {features, ?}: (x, ?)
```

Here are 3 unlabeled examples from the same housing dataset, which exclude medianHouseValue:

| housingMedianAge (feature) | totalRooms (feature) | totalBedrooms (feature) |
|----------------------------|----------------------|-------------------------|
| 42                         | 1686                 | 361                     |
| 34                         | 1226                 | 180                     |
| 33                         | 1077                 | 271                     |

Once we've trained our model with labeled examples, we use that model to predict the label on unlabeled examples. In the spam detector, unlabeled examples are new emails that humans haven't yet labeled.

### Models

A model defines the relationship between features and label. For example, a spam detection model might associate certain features strongly with "spam". Let's highlight two phases of a model's life:

- **Training** means creating or **learning** the model. That is, you show the model labeled examples and enable the model to gradually learn the relationships between features and label.

- **Inference** means applying the trained model to unlabeled examples. That is, you use the trained model to make useful predictions ($y'$). For example, during inference, you can predict medianHouseValue for new unlabeled examples.

### Regression vs. classification

A **regression** model predicts **continuous** values. For example, regression models make predictions that answer questions like the following:

- What is the value of a house in California?
- What is the probability that a user will click on this ad?

A **classification** model predicts **discrete** values. For example, classification models make predictions that answer questions like the following:

- Is a given email message spam or not spam?
- Is this an image of a dog, a cat, or a hamster?


Suppose you want to develop a supervised machine learning model to predict whether a given email is "spam" or "not spam." Which of the following statements are true?

- Emails not marked as "spam" or "not spam" are unlabeled examples.
    - > Because our label consists of the values "spam" and "not spam", any email not yet marked as spam or not spam is an unlabeled example.

- The labels applied to some examples might be unreliable.
    - > Definitely. It's important to check how reliable your data is. The labels for this dataset probably come from email users who mark particular email messages as spam. Since most users do not mark every suspicious email message as spam, we may have trouble knowing whether an email is spam. Furthermore, spammers could intentionally poison our model by providing faulty labels.

Suppose an online shoe store wants to create a supervised ML model that will provide personalized shoe recommendations to users. That is, the model will recommend certain pairs of shoes to Marty and different pairs of shoes to Janet. The system will use past user behavior data to generate training data. Which of the following statements are true?

- "The user clicked on the shoe's description" is a useful label.
    - > Users probably only want to read more about those shoes that they like. Clicks by users is, therefore, an observable, quantifiable metric that could serve as a good training label. Since our training data derives from past user behavior, our labels need to derive from objective behaviors like clicks that strongly correlate with user preferences.
- "Shoe size" is a useful feature.
    - > "Shoe size" is a quantifiable signal that likely has a strong impact on whether the user will like the recommended shoes. For example, if Marty wears size 9, the model shouldn't recommend size 7 shoes.